README.md, before:

# StandupReminder

A lightweight macOS menu bar app that reminds you to stand up, stretch, and decompress your spine. Built for developers (and anyone) who sit too long.

![macOS 14+](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-14%2B-blue)
![Swift 5.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-5.9-orange)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)

## Why?

Sitting for hours wrecks your back. This app lives in your menu bar, tracks how long you've been working, and forces you to take stretch breaks with guided exercises — specifically chosen for spinal disc health.

## Features

- **Menu bar timer** — shows cumulative active work time at a glance
- **Activity detection** — automatically pauses when you step away (uses IOKit idle time)
- **Blocking stretch overlay** — full-screen break with guided exercises (skip available after 10s)
- **Exercises for disc health** — standing back extensions, McKenzie press-ups, nerve glides, and more
- **Warning banner** — 30-second heads-up before a break starts
- **Snooze** — up to 2 snoozes per cycle (5 min, then 2 min)
- **Posture nudge** — gentle mid-cycle reminder to check your posture
- **Meeting detection** — defers breaks during Zoom, Teams, WebEx, FaceTime, screen sharing
- **Adaptive breaks** — break duration increases the longer you sit without moving
- **Daily streak tracking** — tracks consecutive days of completed breaks
- **Session summary** — stats on quit showing work time, breaks completed/skipped
- **Disable timer** — pause for 15m / 30m / 1h / 2h, or indefinitely
- **Launch at login** — optional auto-start via macOS Login Items
- **Dock-free** — runs as a background agent (no Dock icon)
- **Configurable** — reminder interval (15–60 min), idle threshold, stretch duration, blocking mode

## Quick Install (No Xcode Required)

Download and run the installer — it builds the app and copies it to your Applications folder:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/KarthikShiva97/Test.git
cd Test
./install.sh
```

That's it. The app will open automatically after install.

### What You Need

- A Mac running **macOS 14 (Sonoma)** or later
- **Xcode Command Line Tools** — the installer will prompt you to install them if missing

> Don't have the Command Line Tools? When prompted, click "Install" in the dialog that appears. It takes a few minutes. You do NOT need the full Xcode app.

## Manual Build

If you prefer to build yourself:

```bash
./build.sh
open StandupReminder.app
```

Or with Swift directly:

```bash
swift build -c release
.build/release/StandupReminder
```

## How It Works

1. The app polls system idle time every 5 seconds via `IOKit`
2. If idle time is below the threshold (default: 2 min), you're considered "active" and the work timer increments
3. At the halfway point, you get a gentle posture nudge
4. 30 seconds before the break, a warning banner appears (with snooze option)
5. When the timer hits the interval (default: 25 min), a full-screen stretch overlay blocks your screen
6. The overlay shows a guided stretch exercise, rotating every 20 seconds
7. After the stretch, the timer resets for the next cycle

## Menu Bar Controls

| Action | Shortcut | Description |
|---|---|---|
| **Break Now** | Cmd+B | Trigger a stretch break immediately |
| **Disable for...** | — | Pause tracking for 15m / 30m / 1h / 2h / indefinitely |
| **Resume Tracking** | Cmd+P | Re-enable after disabling |
| **Reset Session** | Cmd+R | Zero out all counters |
| **Preferences...** | Cmd+, | Open settings window |
| **Quit** | Cmd+Q | Exit the app |

## Preferences

| Setting | Options | Default |
|---|---|---|
| Reminder interval | 15, 20, 25, 30, 45, 60 min | 25 min |
| Idle threshold | 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 min | 2 min |
| Blocking mode | On / Off | On |
| Stretch duration | 30s, 1m, 2m, 3m, 5m | 1 min |
| Launch at login | On / Off | Off |

## Uninstall

```bash
# Remove the app
rm -rf /Applications/StandupReminder.app

# Remove saved preferences (optional)
defaults delete com.standupreminder.app
```

## Architecture

```
Sources/StandupReminder/
├── main.swift                # App entry point
├── AppDelegate.swift          # Menu bar UI, status item, actions
├── ActivityMonitor.swift      # IOKit idle time detection
├── ReminderManager.swift      # Work timer, break scheduling, meeting detection
├── PreferencesWindow.swift    # SwiftUI preferences UI
├── SessionStats.swift         # Break stats and daily streak tracking
├── StretchOverlayWindow.swift # Full-screen blocking stretch overlay
└── WarningBanner.swift        # Pre-break warning banner with snooze
```

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add camera-based posture detection using Vision framework
- New PostureMonitor.swift: captures a single camera frame every 30 seconds,
  uses VNDetectHumanBodyPoseRequest to detect ear/shoulder/nose landmarks,
  and flags slouching by comparing against a calibrated "good posture" baseline
- Auto-calibrates from the first 3 frames when enabled; manual recalibrate
  available in Preferences
- Three sensitivity levels (Low/Medium/High) in Preferences
- Privacy-first: brief capture bursts (not continuous video), no images stored
  or transmitted, camera permission required via NSCameraUsageDescription
- Integrated into ReminderManager — bad posture fires the same posture nudge
  notification as the timer-based mid-cycle nudge
- Updated Package.swift with AVFoundation, Vision, CoreMedia frameworks
- Updated README with feature docs and how posture detection works

https://claude.ai/code/session_01EJztnEk78tGa2bGZhCBdxc

README.md, after:

# StandupReminder

A lightweight macOS menu bar app that reminds you to stand up, stretch, and decompress your spine. Built for developers (and anyone) who sit too long.

![macOS 14+](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-14%2B-blue)
![Swift 5.9](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-5.9-orange)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-green)

## Why?

Sitting for hours wrecks your back. This app lives in your menu bar, tracks how long you've been working, and forces you to take stretch breaks with guided exercises — specifically chosen for spinal disc health.

## Features

- **Menu bar timer** — shows cumulative active work time at a glance
- **Activity detection** — automatically pauses when you step away (uses IOKit idle time)
- **Blocking stretch overlay** — full-screen break with guided exercises (skip available after 10s)
- **Exercises for disc health** — standing back extensions, McKenzie press-ups, nerve glides, and more
- **Warning banner** — 30-second heads-up before a break starts
- **Snooze** — up to 2 snoozes per cycle (5 min, then 2 min)
- **Posture nudge** — gentle mid-cycle reminder to check your posture
- **Camera posture detection** — optional Vision-powered slouch detection using your Mac's camera (no images stored)
- **Meeting detection** — defers breaks during Zoom, Teams, WebEx, FaceTime, screen sharing
- **Adaptive breaks** — break duration increases the longer you sit without moving
- **Daily streak tracking** — tracks consecutive days of completed breaks
- **Session summary** — stats on quit showing work time, breaks completed/skipped
- **Disable timer** — pause for 15m / 30m / 1h / 2h, or indefinitely
- **Launch at login** — optional auto-start via macOS Login Items
- **Dock-free** — runs as a background agent (no Dock icon)
- **Configurable** — reminder interval (15–60 min), idle threshold, stretch duration, blocking mode

## Quick Install (No Xcode Required)

Download and run the installer — it builds the app and copies it to your Applications folder:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/KarthikShiva97/Test.git
cd Test
./install.sh
```

That's it. The app will open automatically after install.

### What You Need

- A Mac running **macOS 14 (Sonoma)** or later
- **Xcode Command Line Tools** — the installer will prompt you to install them if missing

> Don't have the Command Line Tools? When prompted, click "Install" in the dialog that appears. It takes a few minutes. You do NOT need the full Xcode app.

## Manual Build

If you prefer to build yourself:

```bash
./build.sh
open StandupReminder.app
```

Or with Swift directly:

```bash
swift build -c release
.build/release/StandupReminder
```

## How It Works

1. The app polls system idle time every 5 seconds via `IOKit`
2. If idle time is below the threshold (default: 2 min), you're considered "active" and the work timer increments
3. At the halfway point, you get a gentle posture nudge
4. If camera posture detection is enabled, it captures a single frame every 30 seconds and uses Apple's Vision framework to detect body landmarks (ears, shoulders, nose) — if you're slouching, you get a nudge
5. 30 seconds before the break, a warning banner appears (with snooze option)
6. When the timer hits the interval (default: 25 min), a full-screen stretch overlay blocks your screen
7. The overlay shows a guided stretch exercise, rotating every 20 seconds
8. After the stretch, the timer resets for the next cycle

### Posture Detection (Optional)

Enable in **Preferences > Posture Detection**. On first enable:

1. macOS will ask for camera permission — grant it
2. Sit up straight in your normal good posture
3. The app calibrates from the first few frames (automatic)
4. If you want to recalibrate later, click "Recalibrate Posture" in Preferences

The camera captures **one frame every 30 seconds** (not continuous video). No images are stored or sent anywhere. The analysis runs entirely on-device using Apple's Vision framework.

## Menu Bar Controls

| Action | Shortcut | Description |
|---|---|---|
| **Break Now** | Cmd+B | Trigger a stretch break immediately |
| **Disable for...** | — | Pause tracking for 15m / 30m / 1h / 2h / indefinitely |
| **Resume Tracking** | Cmd+P | Re-enable after disabling |
| **Reset Session** | Cmd+R | Zero out all counters |
| **Preferences...** | Cmd+, | Open settings window |
| **Quit** | Cmd+Q | Exit the app |

## Preferences

| Setting | Options | Default |
|---|---|---|
| Reminder interval | 15, 20, 25, 30, 45, 60 min | 25 min |
| Idle threshold | 1, 2, 3, 5, 10 min | 2 min |
| Blocking mode | On / Off | On |
| Stretch duration | 30s, 1m, 2m, 3m, 5m | 1 min |
| Posture detection | On / Off | Off |
| Posture sensitivity | Low / Medium / High | Medium |
| Launch at login | On / Off | Off |

## Uninstall

```bash
# Remove the app
rm -rf /Applications/StandupReminder.app

# Remove saved preferences (optional)
defaults delete com.standupreminder.app
```

## Architecture

```
Sources/StandupReminder/
├── main.swift                # App entry point
├── AppDelegate.swift          # Menu bar UI, status item, actions
├── ActivityMonitor.swift      # IOKit idle time detection
├── ReminderManager.swift      # Work timer, break scheduling, meeting detection
├── PostureMonitor.swift        # Camera + Vision body pose slouch detection
├── PreferencesWindow.swift    # SwiftUI preferences UI
├── SessionStats.swift         # Break stats and daily streak tracking
├── StretchOverlayWindow.swift # Full-screen blocking stretch overlay
└── WarningBanner.swift        # Pre-break warning banner with snooze
```

## License

MIT
